Jest narrative and checkpoints (#3)
ben-spector-cc/intermediate-react-jest: lesson/narrative_and_checkpoints/narrative-and-checkpoints-template.md

# _Testing With Jest_

## Exercise 1: _What is Jest?_

### Narrative:

As developers, we are always trying to make our code bulletproof from tiny bugs that could completely break our applications. One process that can help us get one step closer to “unbreakable code” is something called "testing." Testing allows us to make sure that our code is behaving the way that we envisioned. Within the realm of testing, there are three major types of tests:

There are three major types of tests:
1. **Unit tests** involve testing fully isolated functions.
2. **Integration** tests involve testing functions with dependencies, for example, a function that calls another function.

> 3. **End-to-End** tests include testing the entire flow of a project, for instance, validating some type of DOM manipulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **End-to-End** tests include testing a full feature. A search button can call many functions and all of them need to work together for the search button to work.
```

Let's begin!

<hr>

## Exercise 2: _Setting up Jest_

### Narrative:

Before we can begin testing our code with Jest, it must first be installed and configured. We will download Jest as a node package meaning that we first need to initiate node package manager (a.k.a npm). We will initiate  npm creating a package.json file by running the following command in our terminal:

```bash
npm init -y
```

> The above syntax instructs the terminal to create our package.json file while filling in all setup questions with the default answer of "yes". Now that we have a way to manage our node packages, it is time to download and install Jest. We will complete this step with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above command creates our package.json file while filling in all setup questions with the default answer of "yes". Now that we have a way to manage our node packages, it is time to download and install Jest. We will complete this step with the following code:
```

The terminal doesn't do it, npm the process does it.

```bash
npm install --save-dev jest
```

> The following syntax instructs the terminal to download the Jest node package and save it as a developer dependency. Developer dependencies are only relevant during development and not included in the final project build for production. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command installs Jest and saves it as a developer dependency. Developer dependencies are only relevant during development and not included in the final project build for production. 
```

> The following syntax instructs the terminal to download the Jest node package and save it as a developer dependency. Developer dependencies are only relevant during development and not included in the final project build for production. 

Reviewer: > not included in the final project build for production.

This is not true. We should remove this. It's not adding any value in learning Jest.

    Hint: _Add ```“test”: “jest”``` to the `” scripts”` object_
3. Checkpoint: _Run test command in terminal to verify_

    Hint: _Run ```npm test``` in terminal_

<hr>

## Exercise 3: _Unit Test With Jest (Part 1)_

### Narrative:

Now that Jest is installed and configured; it is time to set up our first unit test. Let's start with the container that will hold our testing logic, the ```test()``` function. 

The test() function takes three parameters:
1. `"description of desired behavior"`
2. () => {}
3. timeout

The first parameter acts as a way to label and identify the test in the testing output. This is where we describe the tested behavior. The second parameter is a function that will hold the actual test logic; we will revisit this parameter further in the next exercise. The final parameter is an optional timeout represented in milliseconds. This optional parameter defaults to 5 seconds if no value is provided and specifies how long a test should wait before aborting if something is preventing the test from finishing. 

Once we put all of the parameters together, we get the following function:

```test("description of desired behavior", () => {})```

### Instructions:

> 1. Checkpoint: _Create an empty test function in the language_spoken.test.js file using the syntax covered above._

Reviewer: We should cover the naming convention for the test file here.

    Hint: _The first parameter should be a string that reads, ```“my first unit test”```_
3. Checkpoint: _Declare an empty function for the function that holds testing logic_

    Hint: _The second parameter should be ```()=>{}```_
4. Checkpoint: _Declare the function using the default timeout_

    Hint: _The third parameter should be left blank._

## Exercise 4: _Unit Test With Jest (Part 2)_

### Narrative:

With our test() function container setup, it is time to finish our first unit test. Jest offers an intuitive and easy-to-set-up testing syntax that provides a smooth transition between lamens terms and jest testing logic. Let's take, for example, an application that can tell you how many milligrams of potassium a list of food contains, we’ll call it “potassiumCounter”. As we begin testing this application, we will want to make sure that each of its individual functions works properly. We will start by testing the ```itemExtractor()``` function. We expect this function to receive an entered list in the form of a string and output it as an object. Below we can see this expected behavior translated into the jest testing syntax:

```js

//file: potassium_counter.test.js

> const potassiumCounter = require('./potassium_counter')

Reviewer: Will learners know CommonJS syntax? If the learning environment uses a recent version of Node then we can stick with ES6. That way the syntax will be the same as the React material.

Reviewer 2: +1

test('transform entered list from string to object', () => {

>    //Setup

Reviewer: Are you trying to show the arrange, act, assert pattern here? If so you should explicitly comment each part and tell the learner what each part is.

Reviewer 2: +1

   const input = '1 taco, 2 pancakes, 3 hamburgers'
   const expectedValue = {
       'taco': 1,
       'pancakes': 2,
       'hamburgers': 3
   }

>    const value = potassiumCounter.itemExtractor(input)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   const result = potassiumCounter.itemExtractor(input)
```

1. Checkpoint: _Rewrite the test switching the matcher with one of the five matchers that we covered, to test that the value should be 6._

    Hint: _Try replacing ```.toEqual()``` with ```.toBe()```_

2. Checkpoint: _Run test in terminal_

    Hint: _Run ```npm test```_

## Exercise 6: _Testing Async Code in Jest (Part 1)_

### Narrative:

Armed with how to write simple unit tests, we will now add a layer of complexity to our tests. We will explore testing asynchronous code in Jest. When testing async code in Jest, we have to be aware of "false positives". False positives occur when a test passes before waiting for a callback to resolve. By default, Jest is not aware that it must wait for callbacks to resolve before finishing a test. Let's test the following function that calls to a REST API and returns a callback with the data:
```js
//file: potassium_counter.test.js
const potassiumCounter = require('./potassium_counter')
 
test('successfully request potassium level and return in callback', () => {
   //setup
  const inputFood = null
  const value = potassiumCounter.potassiumSearch(inputFood, result => {
       //Jest test
        expect(result).toBeDefined()
      })

> })

Reviewer: This is not how to test async code. What we're doing here is mocking the callback function. The test code shouldn't be used this way.

Reviewer 2: @JohnPhamous, Akil's example appears (to me) to be in line with the examples in the Jest docs. Is there a distinction that you're noting that I'm missing? If so, then the learning standards are also wrong.

https://jestjs.io/docs/asynchronous

``` 
Let’s see what happens when we try and get the potassium levels of ```null```:
 
![false positive test output](assets/exercise_6_1.png)

Notice how the test passes even though it shouldn't. There are a few ways to fix this issue. We will begin with the ```done()``` callback provided by Jest. When called, the ```done()``` callback signifies that the test should not finish until the asynchonous code has completed its behavior. The implementation of the ```done()``` callback to fix the false positive problem looks like this:

```js
test("successfully request potassium level and return in callback"), (done) => {
   //setup
  const inputFood = null
  const value = potassiumCounter.potassiumSearch(inputFood, result => {
       //Jest test
       try {
           expect(result).toBeDefined()
           done()
       } catch (error) {
           done(error)

>        }    

Reviewer: Same here, test code shouldn't be used inside the code that's being tested.

### Instructions:

1. Checkpoint: _Run test to identify if it is returning a  false positive_

    Hint: _Run ```npm test```_

2. Checkpoint: _Using the example above as a reference rewrite the asynchronous test using the `done()` callback._

    Hint: _ ```done``` should be passed as a parameter and the test syntax should include:
```js
        try {
        expect(result).toBeDefined()
        done()
        } catch (error) {
            done(error)
        }
```

3. Checkpoint: _Run test to verify that the tests do not pass and that the false positive problem has been fixed_

    Hint: _Run ```npm test```_

## Exercise 7: _Testing Async Code in Jest (Part 2)_

### Narrative:

As mentioned before, there are different ways beyond the ```done()``` callback to properly perform tests on asynchronous code. We will now explore testing functions that return a promise instead of a callback function. Let’s use the same function as before altering it slightly. Instead of returning a callback with the data, the function will now simply return a promise. We will run the same test as before but this time without the done parameter to recreate the false positive problem:
```js

> test('successfully request potassium level from database and return as promise', () => {

Reviewer: These tests are describing implementation details now. Tests should avoid caring about how a unit is implemented. The only thing the test cares about is that it got the potassium level.

   //Jest test
     expect(result).toBeDefined()
            
})
```
Now let’s run the test to verify that the false positive problem has been fixed:

![false positive solution test output](assets/exercise_7_2.png)

This syntax works by placing the ```async``` before the parameter parentheses, this transforms the function into an async function. This means, that whenever the word ```await``` is placed before a function within the async function, that it must wait until it returns before moving on down the call stack. 

### Instructions:

1. Checkpoint: _Run test to identify if it is returning a  false positive_

    Hint: _Run ```npm test```_

2. Checkpoint: _Using the example above as a reference rewrite the test using the `async/await` syntax._

    Hint: _The testing function should begin with the indicator ‘async’. The ‘await’ indicator should come before any function that needs to return before moving on down the call stack._

3. Checkpoint: _Run test to verify that the tests do not pass and that the false positive problem has been fixed_

    Hint: _Run ```npm test```_

## Exercise 8: _Mocking in Jest (Part 1)_

### Narrative:

> When it comes to creating “good tests”, it is important to first stop and ask ourselves, what behavior are we specifically trying to test. Over the past examples, we have been analyzing the `potassiumSearch()` function which includes a REST API call. Testing in this manner is not ideal because what we care about is not so much that the third-party API works, but that the behavior with the returned values from that call works. Incorporating REST API calls into our tests can create fragile tests that may fail simply due to network issues. Also, it could cause problems if we were interacting with a production-grade database as we could accidentally alter official data. A better and more efficient way to write our tests would be to bypass the REST API call and mock the return values. Luckily, Jest provides us with a way to mock functions and even modules. Let’s take our previous function used to retrieve potassium info and walk through the steps to create a mock function and to mock the Axios module to replace the REST API call. For the sake of clarity, we will break down this process over this exercise and the next. 

Reviewer: Will learners know what Axios is? Should we stick with `fetch` instead?
